questionnaire design

data collection

data order

data checking

analysis

storage

archiving

if archiving is the end, where does it start?



Sensitive personal data


Data collectionn

Keep the reseaonably short to allow programming


Lower case only


Descripvive names, e.g. birth-dat


For data entry forms you may use one standard for the data and plan



IMPORTANT:  Code book !

A codebook is a technical document that provides an
overview of and information about the variables in a dataset. The
codebook ensures that the statistician has the complete background
information necessary to undertake the analysis, and a codebook
documents the data to make sure that the data is well understood and
reusable in the future. Here we will show how to create codebooks in R
using the dataMaid packages.




The dataMaid package produces an Rmarkdown summary document with
information on each variable in the data frame, and the document can
be rendered to a report in HTML, pdf, or word. The final report can be
given to scientific collaborators since proper data validation often
requires a collaborative effort between an expert in the field and a
data scientist. It is easy to tweak report generated by dataMaid to
obtain a document that can serve as codebook for the cleaned dataset.
overview of and information about the variables in a dataset. The
codebook ensures that the statistician has the complete background
information necessary to undertake the analysis, and a codebook
documents the data to make sure that the data is well understood and
reusable in the future. Here we will show how to create codebooks in R
using the dataMaid packages.  http://sandsynligvis.dk/articles/17/datamaid.html


MISSING VALUES: 1.outcome of operation that was not perfoemd(fos example)


PROPER DATABASE(MySQL)

VARIABLE LENGTH.Num 3,4,5
Codes: numeric
Date: length 4
Use code tabels (R:Factor/Stata:'value labels')
Normalized VS DENORMALIZED data

dISTINCT VALUES:

NOMINAL SCALES: MISSING can be allowed and valid(Yes, No, Not applicable)


DATA RELATION AND DERIVED VARIABLES: E.G.BMI, sMOKING PACK-YEARS

Should be considered part of the data entry.

wORKING WITH TEXT STRINGS

......OR CODES


sTORE CODES AND LABELS INSTEAD





Normalized is what SQL freaks love. For example to normalize addresses, SQL freaks love to create 3 separate tables (Entities):

STREETS
ZIP_CODES
HOUSE_NUMBERS
This is an extreme example of over-normalization. This was actually done in the '70-ties when disk-space was expensive. Today only a few idiots are going this far. It doesn't make sense anymore. We just create one single table with full addresses.

Demoralized is the opposite. It's also known as 'flat'. A flat Database only has one single table It has only one single table where all data is stored. The disadvantage of this approach is that doubles may exist. On the other hand, Data storage is cheap and we don't need to worry a lot of this.

Normalization and Denormalization


GOOD dm

Well organized storage
Ideally self descriptive
keep track of the data
change control: who have access
version handling
back up
documentation!


SIZE MATTER? SUFFIEIENT SIZE?
